28/2-7/3 Choosing how to program microcontroler
Goal: Make Zephyr RTOS work on PlatformIO

PlatformIO is an open-source extension of Visual studio code, which supports hundreds of boards with different frameworks. Seeed XIAO nRF52840 is not natively suported. Seeed made library for Arduino IDE, which supports Arduino and Mbed framework, that was implemented through Github to PlatformIO and allows non-problematic impplementation.

The XIAO has library in the Zephyr Github repository, but the PlatformIO does not use most recent version. The version of Zephyr itself is altered in PlatformIO and therefore does not work even after corssreferencing with other boards already implemented in PlatformIO, such as Seeeduino (as a reference for the formfactor) or nRF52840 DK (as a reference for the chip).

The PlatformIO does not have inbuild serial USB communication, which results in inability to reprogram the board through the VS Code and need to go through bootloader first. This poses inconvinience, which can be avoided by use of a Arduino IDE, therefore if route of MBed or Arduino framework is chosen, Arduino IDE should be chosen. If the route of Zephyr is chosen, SDK by nordic semi is the optimal route, because event though it also does not have serial USB, it uses bearbone Zephyr

The result of a meeting with the task group was the use of Arduino IDE with Arduino framework, as we did not find any compeling reason to use RTOS, such as Zephyr or MBed. Because the main reason to use was for scheduling, as the microcontroller needs to process data, receive data from remote controller and control the motors at the same time. But the scheduling is beyond the scope of this project.

7/3-14/3 Initial development
Goal: Communication between XIAO BLE microcontrolers

As a first option, BLE was chosen. It is technology under Bluetooth branding, but was formerly developed by Nordic Semiconductors, Nokia and others. As such, it not compatible with normal Bluetooth and requires dedicated hardware, but most new devices support it. BLE uses less power, but transfer less data. 

XIAO BLE does not have a library to use for BLE, but it is possible to use Arduino nano 33 BLE library, as it uses same chip - nRF52840. With the help of provided examples, functionality between two microcontrelrs was ensured, as in examples it is usally communication between chip and mobile phone. 

To have a valid data to transfer, joystick (with X, Y and click) was connected. The ADC that nRF52840 uses is 10 bit, therefore middle - steady state values were around 512. TBD: as it uses potentiometer, wear should be expected and therefore some sort of calibration and tollerance should be implemented.

Potential problem is the amount of memory that this program uses. Incomplete uses 39% of memory, with large part of it beeing the BLE library.

eigen values are poles in the observer
ADRC (active disturbance rejection control) in combo with PID
